name: Norman Sackett
email: nsackett@u.rochester.edu

lab partner: Julien Diamond

CSC 172 lab 5, project 1 has us implement a program to convert an infix expression to a postfix expression and evaluate it. The main method is in the InfixCalc.java file and creates a GUI that takes input from a text field and uses a button action listener within the Java Swing GUI to run the infixToPostfix method. The method takes the input text and scans through it for useful tokens to work with each operand or operator individually. It then enqueues operands and pushes open parthenses to a stack, and closed parenthesis enqueue operators until the open parenthesis is hit, ensuring all operations within the parentheses are evaluated first. Other operators enqueue operators from the stack until an operator of lesser or greater riority is found. The program supports the modulo operator and trigonometric functions and handles invalid inputs with a custom error exception. The program also supports file upload for evaluating infix expressions. Any text file with each line in the file being an infix expression will be evaluated and a file containing the output of those expressions can be downloaded.

We had to overcome obstacles involving adding numbers and operators with multiple digits/characters to the stacks and queues used to convert and evaluate the operations. Originally the input expression was converted from a character array and the stacks and queues held characters. When implementing operations like the trig functions, however, this approach didn't work, as we needed multiple characters to represent a single operator. The solution was ultimately to switch everything over to working with strings instead of characters and include special cases for parsing these multi-character operators.

The files included in this zip file include the URNode and URList classes which are used to implement URStack and URQueue, the data structures actually used in the infix conversion and postfix evaluation algorithms. The InvalidOperatorException class allows for a custom exception to be thrown when a problem arises, with a message including what the problem was. The InfixCalc file contains the GUI information and links to the infix conversion and postfix evaluation functions.
